# Predictive-Maintenance-in-Digital-Manufacturing

This paper proposes a robust deep learning-based framework to detect anomalies in air quality monitoring pollutant concentration data provided by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Real-time air quality monitoring is very important for public health and environmental management in the face of rapid urbanization and industrialization. Herein, we shall probe into LSTMs and CNNs for the classification of air quality data using machine learning to help improve the accuracy of air pollution prediction models. This paper tries to make some contributions to the Machine Learning & Deep Learning domain in the engineering informatics area, particularly in environmental monitoring systems. In this paper, we will introduce two key air pollutant data: PM2.5 and Ozone from the EPA, in order to develop a binary classification model. The value of AQI labels the air quality as normal and hazardous. Among all models, both LSTM and CNN have outstanding performances: for the LSTM model at 100%, and for the CNN model at 99.87%. The sensitivity analysis was performed to find out the contribution of each pollutant in deciding on their respective class and hence, PM2.5 and Ozone were shown to be the major contributors in developing models that predict air quality. Besides, various cross-validation methods are done to justify the robustness of the model and avoid overfitting. The ROC curves for both the models have a perfect score, which is 1.0 in terms of AUC; hence, proving the outstanding predictive power of these models. The presented results illustrate the opportunities of deep learning methods for real-time, scalable, exact environmental monitoring; more importantly, for pinpointing deviations from regular patterns in air quality. The findings of this study bear broader implications for the development of intelligent environmental monitoring systems that can predict harmful air quality conditions and enable timely interventions. The proposed framework may hence serve as a starting point for the integration of machine learning and deep learning technologies in environmental informatics, of value in advancing smart city infrastructures and public health management.
